Title: Why a blog? Why a static website? Why Pelican?
Subtitle: Motivations to start a blog, to use a static website generator and Pelican in particular.
Category: Website
Tags: www, pelican
Date: 2015-09-20

## Why a blog?

> I'm continuously learning (and sharing it when I got it).

This is my colleague's tagline, but I could just have the same one. 
This is one of three reasons I started this blog - I like sharing knowledge. 
It also helps me to strengthen my knowledge and challenge myself (*"if you can't explain it simply you don't understand it well enough"*).
Keeping the notes online help me to access them from anywhere anytime I need them.

However, I am not advertising this site at all. In fact this blog is still under a temporary domain,
which is hard to memorize. But if you have just googled an answer for your issue - that's fantastic!
Please drop a short comment to let me know about it!

## Why a static website hosting?

See [S3 for static website hosting](/s3-for-static-website-hosting.html).


If you would like to know more about advantages of static websites generators, especially for Python, 
I advise you to listen to this podcast [Podcast.__init__: Episode 20 - Static Site Generators](http://podcastinit.com/static-site-generators.html), 
where authors of the most popular SWGs: Pelican and Nicola, discuss it in details.

## Why Pelican?

There are many website static generators available on the internet, but I chose Pelican because from those written in Python it is the most popular one. 
Active development, a vibrant community and many available plugins - it's convincing enough.

